# Repository description
This repository contains the projects that I made during the course "Data Analyst" organized by Yandex Practicum. By the moment, as part of the studying program, I have completed 13 independent projects, 10 of which are posted here (the rest was performed directly on the Yandex Praktikum platform (separate tasks in the SQL simulator), or contained a significant non-author component).

A brief description of the projects in the repository (from new to early):
1. **Strategy for raising clients' retention in a fitness club chain** (`fitness_club_churn` directory): I conducted EDA, created a binary classification model to forecast the probability of churn for a particular client, made a clusterization of clients to find some common behavior patterns. Based on the research, I proposed several recommendations to increase retention. *Skills: exploratory data analysis, machine learning, data visualization.*
2. **Yandex Dzen** (`yandex_dzen` directory): getting data on the users' interactions with the platform from the database, changing their format, creating a dashboard via Tableau, presenting results in a presentation. *Skills: Tableau, `sqlalchemy`, presentation preparation.*
3. **Analysis of mobile application user behavior** (`app_aab_test` directory): based on the logs of the mobile application  for food delivery over a certain period, I built a sales funnel, identified the stage with the lowest conversion rate, and suggested ways to solve the problem. In addition, I analyzed the results of an A/A/B-test for changing fonts in the application. *Skills: A/B-testing, data visualization, statistical testing.*
4. **Research of the catering market in Moscow** (`moscow_restaurants` directory): having studied the data on public catering facilities in Moscow, I gave recommendations on the type, size, and location of the catering facility, where, according to the idea, guests are attended by robots. The results of the study were presented in the form of a presentation. *Skills: Exploratory data analysis, data visualization, presentation preparation.*
5. **Prioritization of hypotheses aimed at increasing sales and analysis of A/B-test results** (`ab_test` directory): I prioritized hypotheses using ICE and RICE frameworks. Then I analyzed the results of A/B-testing by building graphs of cumulative indicators for groups (revenue, average check, conversion rates) and calculating the statistical significance of differences in conversions and average checks between groups. As a result, I concluded that it was necessary to complete the A/B-test and recognize it as successful. *Skills: ICE, RICE, A/B-testing, statistical testing.*
6. **Analysis of the advertising campaign of the entertainment application Procrastinate Pro+** (`app_ad_campaign` directory): I conducted a cohort analysis, calculated the main marketing metrics (LTV, ROI, CAC, Retention Rate, Conversion Rate), analyzed advertising costs by source, identified reasons for the company's losses, gave recommendations to solve the problem. *Skills: exploratory analysis, business performance analysis.*
7. **Internet store of computer games** (`games_research` directory): based on historical data on sales and ratings of computer games, a forecast was made regarding their next year popularity, and a portrait of users by region was made. Based on these data, I provided recommendations for the development of the computer games store's advertising campaign. *Skills: data processing, exploratory data analysis, statistical testing, data visualization.*
8. **Determination of a promising tariff for a telecom company** (`mobile_tariffs` directory): I analyzed customer behavior when using the operator's services, identified the most popular services, tested hypotheses about the difference in the revenue from subscribers of different tariffs, as well as the difference in the revenue from subscribers from Moscow and other regions. *Skills: data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, statistical testing, Student's t-test.*
9. **Research of the real estate market in St. Petersburg** (`spb_real_estate` directory): after pre-processing the data and conducting their basic check, I determined the parameters affecting the cost of apartments in St. Petersburg and nearby localities. *Skills: data processing, categorization, exploratory data analysis, dependency identification.*
10. **Research on the solvency of borrowers** (`solvency_research` directory): based on the data of the credit department of a bank, the influence of various factors on the fact of timely repayment of a loan was investigated. *Skills: data processing, data gaps, duplicates, categorization.*

Various libraries were used in the projects. The main ones are `pandas`, `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `seaborn`, `sklearn`.

Since the datasets were provided by Yandex Practicum and constitute an intellectual property, all links to the training data are hidden.
